Project Flow - Custom MCP Server

1. Create/open the project folder.

   Example:
   mkdir project_build_mcp_server
   cd project_build_mcp_server

2. Initialize the Python project using uv.

   uv init .

   This creates files like:
   - pyproject.toml
   - .python-version
   - README.md
   - src/

3. Open the project in VS Code.

   code .

4. Create or sync the virtual environment.

   uv sync

5. Activate the virtual environment on macOS/Linux.

   source .venv/bin/activate

   After activation, the terminal should show something like:
   (.venv)

   Note:
   Do not use .venv/Scripts/Activate.ps1 on macOS.
   That command is for Windows PowerShell.

6. Install required dependencies.

   uv add mcp
   uv add fastmcp

7. Add the MCP server code in main.py.

8. Run the MCP Inspector to test the server locally.

   npx @modelcontextprotocol/inspector uv run python main.py

This command is used to launch the MCP Inspector, an interactive web-based debugging tool 
that allows us to test, monitor, and troubleshoot your custom Model Context Protocol (MCP) 
server before connecting it to an AI client like Claude Desktop.
@modelcontextprotocol/inspector: This is the official MCP Inspector package created by Anthropic.
It spins up a local web interface that allows us to allows you to test, monitor, and troubleshoot our 
custom Model Context Protocol (MCP) server before connecting it to an AI client like Claude Desktop.

we run this command during the development and testing phase of building an MCP server.
we have written our server code (e.g., in main.py) and want to check if it starts up successfully without errors.
we want to manually test your tools, resources, or prompts by passing inputs 
into them and seeing the output responses in real-time.

9. If npx asks to install the inspector package, type:

   y

10. Open the inspector URL shown in the terminal and test your MCP tools.

Useful commands:

- Check active Python:
  which python

- Run Python through uv without manually activating the environment:
  uv run python

- Run the server through uv:
  uv run python main.py
